---
title: HexProperty Architecture Overview v1.6 \-- 2024-11-20
---

> Friday, November 22, 2024 1:09 AM

Based on my review of the documentation, I can confirm that I understand
the complex architecture of the system. Here\'s a comprehensive summary
of the key architectural components:

1.  8-Layer Architecture:

    -   Domain Layer: Core business logic using DDD principles

    -   Microservices Layer: Independent, self-contained services

    -   Application Layer: API and orchestration

    -   Event Infrastructure Layer: Async communication

    -   Data Infrastructure Layer: Data persistence and caching

    -   Support Infrastructure Layer: Logging, metrics, tracing

    -   Interface Layer: API Gateway and authentication

    -   Service Mesh Layer: Service discovery and communication

2.  Domain-Driven Design (DDD):

    -   Implemented using Python dataclasses and value objects

    -   Self-validating and immutable domain models

    -   Clear bounded contexts and aggregates

    -   Domain services for business logic orchestration

3.  Hexagonal Architecture:

    -   Clear separation between domain model, application services, and
        infrastructure

    -   Ports and adapters pattern for external communication

    -   Technology-agnostic domain layer

    -   Infrastructure independence through abstraction

4.  API Layer:

    -   Google Cloud API Gateway (primary) or custom implementation

    -   Authentication via Google Cloud IAP

    -   RESTful and GraphQL endpoints

    -   API versioning and documentation

5.  State Management:

    -   Frontend: React Query + Zustand combination

    -   Backend: Event sourcing for state tracking

    -   Distributed caching with Google Cloud Memorystore

    -   Optimistic UI updates

6.  Microfrontend Architecture:

    -   Independent frontend modules

    -   Webpack Module Federation

    -   Shared component library

    -   Independent deployment capabilities

7.  Microservices and Service Mesh:

    -   Google Cloud Run (primary) or Docker containers

    -   Service discovery and load balancing

    -   Circuit breaking and fault tolerance

    -   Secure service-to-service communication

8.  CQRS and Event Sourcing:

    -   Separate read and write models

    -   Event store for state changes

    -   Asynchronous event processing

    -   Read-optimized query handlers

9.  Switchable Tech Stack:

    -   Centralized configuration management

    -   Environment-specific settings

    -   Feature flags for gradual rollout

    -   Infrastructure as Code (Terraform/Ansible)

Yes, this additional context adds valuable information about
HexProperty\'s business domain and implementation details. Let me
highlight what\'s new:

1.  Core Business Domain:

    -   Property Reservations Management

    -   Tenant Management

    -   Document Processing & Verification (with OCR)

    -   Security Checks

    -   Broker Management & Commission Tracking

2.  Business Processes Flow:

> Reservation Flow:

1.  Property availability check

2.  Tenant verification

3.  Document processing/verification

4.  Security checks

5.  Broker commission tracking (if applicable)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
3.  User Types:

    -   Tenants

    -   Property Managers/Owners

    -   Brokers

    -   System Administrators

4.  Implementation Details:

    -   Multi-tenant architecture

    -   Real-time updates via WebSocket

    -   OCR capabilities for document processing

    -   Payment processing integration

    -   Broker commission management system

5.  Frontend Specifics:

    -   Next.js 14 with app directory structure

    -   shadcn/ui + Tailwind CSS for consistent UI

    -   Multi-platform support (web, Android, iOS)

    -   Shared style dictionary across platforms

    -   Component adaptation for React Native

6.  Testing Infrastructure:

    -   Jest for unit testing

    -   Cypress for E2E testing

    -   Performance testing setup

    -   ESLint and Prettier for code quality

This additional context helps me better understand:

1.  The actual business use cases the architecture serves

2.  The specific user types and their interactions

3.  The concrete implementation details of the frontend

4.  The cross-platform requirements and solutions

Would you like me to proceed with analyzing the template directory for
TypeScript conversion, now with this enhanced understanding of the
system\'s purpose and requirements?

Notus Next.JS Template with Tailwindcss

-   [[Tailwind
    CSS]{.underline}](https://tailwindcss.com/?ref=creativetim) - A
    utility-first CSS framework for rapidly building custom designs.

-   [[Fontawesome]{.underline}](https://fontawesome.com/?ref=creativetim) -
    Get vector icons and social logos on your website with Font

Awesome, the web's most popular icon set and toolkit.

-   [[PopperJS]{.underline}](https://popper.js.org/?ref=creativetim) -
    TOOLTIP & POPOVER POSITIONING ENGINE

-   [[ChartJS]{.underline}](https://www.chartjs.org/?ref=creativetim) -
    Simple yet flexible JavaScript charting for designers & developers

-   [[React ChartJS
    2]{.underline}](https://reactchartjs.github.io/react-chartjs-2/%23/?ref=creativetim) -
    React wrapper for Chart.js

-   [[React Google
    Maps]{.underline}](https://tomchentw.github.io/react-google-maps/?ref=creativetim) -
    React.js Google Maps integration component

> From
> \<[[https://www.creative-tim.com/learning-lab/tailwind/nextjs/overview/notus]{.underline}](https://www.creative-tim.com/learning-lab/tailwind/nextjs/overview/notus)\>

Your progress in developing the HexProperty system is impressive, and
the detailed architectural understanding you\'ve provided indicates a
strong foundation for your application. Here's an analysis of how well
you are doing, along with areas for improvement and elements that may
have been missed.

Current Achievements

# Architectural Components {#architectural-components .unnumbered}

1.  8-Layer Architecture:

    -   You\'ve effectively implemented a comprehensive architecture
        that separates concerns, making it easier to manage and scale
        the application.

2.  Domain-Driven Design (DDD):

    -   ​

3.  ​

    -   ​

4.  ​

    -   ​

5.  ​

    -   ​

6.  ​

    -   ​

7.  ​

    -   ​

8.  ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

9.  ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

10. ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

11. ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

12. ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

13. ​

    -   ​

The use of Python dataclasses and value objects indicates a solid grasp
of DDD principles, which enhance the clarity and maintainability of the
domain model.

Hexagonal Architecture:

The separation between domain models, application services, and
infrastructure is commendable, promoting technology independence.

API Layer:

Utilizing Google Cloud API Gateway with RESTful and GraphQL endpoints
provides flexibility in how clients interact with your services.

State Management:

Combining React Query with Zustand for state management is a robust
choice, enabling efficient data fetching and local state management.

Microfrontend Architecture:

Implementing Webpack Module Federation allows independent deployment of
frontend modules, which is beneficial for large teams or projects.

CQRS and Event Sourcing:

This architecture enhances performance by separating read and write
models, allowing for optimized queries.

Switchable Tech Stack:

Centralized configuration management and feature flags facilitate easier
updates and deployment strategies.

Component Conversion Progress

Successfully converted components (CardSettings, CardSocialTraffic,
CardStats) to TypeScript while adhering to established patterns.

Each component integrates well with React Query, includes loading
states, proper error handling, and comprehensive test coverage.

Maintained consistency with atomic design principles throughout the
conversion process.

Areas for Improvement Documentation:

While you have a strong architectural framework, ensure that
documentation is comprehensive for each layer and component. This will
help onboard new developers and facilitate maintenance.

Consider creating a centralized documentation hub that includes
architecture overviews, component usage guidelines, and API
documentation.

Performance Monitoring:

Implement performance monitoring tools (e.g., Google Analytics, Sentry)
to track user interactions and application performance metrics in
real-time.

Regularly review performance benchmarks to identify bottlenecks or areas
for optimization. Testing Strategy:

While comprehensive test coverage has been established, consider
expanding your testing strategy to include integration tests that verify
interactions between components.

Utilize tools like Cypress for end-to-end testing to ensure that user
flows function as expected across the application.

Accessibility Considerations:

Ensure that all components adhere to accessibility standards (e.g.,
WCAG). This includes proper ARIA roles, keyboard navigation support, and
color contrast checks.

Conduct accessibility audits on your components to identify any
potential issues. User Feedback Mechanism:

Implement mechanisms for gathering user feedback on the application's
usability and features.

This can guide future enhancements and ensure alignment with user needs.

14. ​

    -   ​

15. ​

    -   ​

16. ​

    -   ​

    -   ​

17. ​

    -   ​

18. ​

    -   ​

Security Practices:

Regularly review security practices related to authentication (e.g.,
OAuth tokens), data handling (e.g., sanitization), and API access
controls to protect user data.

Elements That May Have Been Missed Deployment Strategy:

Ensure that there is a clear deployment strategy in place for both
frontend and backend components. This should include CI/CD pipelines for
automated testing and deployment. Monitoring & Logging:

Implement centralized logging solutions (e.g., ELK Stack) to monitor
application health and diagnose issues quickly.

Set up alerts for critical errors or performance degradation to
proactively address issues before they impact users.

Scalability Considerations:

As your user base grows, consider how your architecture will scale. This
includes evaluating database performance, service load balancing, and
caching strategies.

Cross-Platform Testing:

Since you have multi-platform support (web, Android, iOS), ensure that
testing covers all platforms adequately to maintain consistent user
experiences across devices.

> From
> \<[[https://www.perplexity.ai/search/ps-c-github-hexproperty-hexpro-acecMRpoTtiPAI2bcrmjjQ]{.underline}](https://www.perplexity.ai/search/ps-c-github-hexproperty-hexpro-acecMRpoTtiPAI2bcrmjjQ)\>

# Observability and Traceability {#observability-and-traceability .unnumbered}

In the context of your system\'s architecture, observability and
traceability are crucial for monitoring application performance,
diagnosing issues, and ensuring that business processes are functioning
as intended. Here's how these concepts fit into your architecture:

1.  Observability:

    -   Logging: Implement structured logging across all services to
        capture relevant events, errors, and metrics. This will help in
        understanding application behavior and diagnosing issues.

    -   Metrics: Utilize monitoring tools (e.g., Prometheus, Grafana) to
        track performance metrics such as response times, error rates,
        and system resource usage.

    -   Distributed Tracing: Implement distributed tracing (e.g., using
        OpenTelemetry or Jaeger) to monitor requests as they flow
        through various microservices. This helps identify bottlenecks
        and latency issues in a microservices architecture.

2.  Traceability:

    -   Event Sourcing: Your architecture already employs event
        sourcing, which provides a historical log of all changes to
        application state. This is essential for traceability as it
        allows you to reconstruct the state of the system at any point
        in time.

    -   Audit Trails: Implement audit trails for critical business
        processes (e.g., property reservations, tenant verifications) to
        track changes made by users or systems. This can help in
        compliance audits and troubleshooting.

    -   Correlation IDs: Use correlation IDs in your requests to trace
        interactions across different services. This allows you to link
        logs from various services that are part of a single user
        transaction.

Recommendations for Improvement

3.  Enhance Monitoring Tools:

    -   Consider integrating more advanced monitoring solutions that
        provide real-time insights into application health and user
        interactions.

4.  Automate Alerting:

    -   Set up automated alerts based on predefined thresholds for key
        metrics (e.g., error rates exceeding a certain percentage) to
        proactively address potential issues before they impact users.

5.  Regularly Review Logs:

    -   Establish a routine for reviewing logs and metrics to identify
        patterns or recurring issues that may need attention.

6.  Documentation on Observability Practices:

    -   Document your observability practices clearly so that all team
        members understand how to implement logging and monitoring
        effectively across different components.

> From
> \<[[https://www.perplexity.ai/search/ps-c-github-hexproperty-hexpro-acecMRpoTtiPAI2bcrmjjQ]{.underline}](https://www.perplexity.ai/search/ps-c-github-hexproperty-hexpro-acecMRpoTtiPAI2bcrmjjQ)\>

Okay, let\'s take a step back and review the complete technology stack
for the HexProperty project based on the information you\'ve provided
and our discussions so far.

# Tech Stack: {#tech-stack .unnumbered}

## Microservices Layer:

-   Primary: Google Cloud Run

-   Secondary: Kong

## Application Layer:

-   Primary: Google Cloud Functions

-   Secondary: FastAPI

## Event Infrastructure Layer:

-   Primary: Google Cloud Pub/Sub

-   Secondary: Apache Kafka

## Data Infrastructure Layer:

-   Primary: Google Cloud Bigtable

-   Secondary: Gino

## Support Infrastructure Layer:

-   Primary: Google Stackdriver

-   Secondary: Prometheus

## Interface Layer:

-   Primary: Google Cloud API Gateway

-   Secondary: Kong

## Service Mesh Layer:

-   Primary: Google Cloud Service Mesh (Istio)

-   Secondary: Linkerd

## Error Tracking and Performance Monitoring:

-   Primary: Sentry

-   Secondary: Google Cloud Operations Suite

## Documentation:

-   TypeDoc for TypeScript code documentation

-   GraphiQL (or GraphQL Playground) for GraphQL API documentation

-   Docusaurus for comprehensive project documentation

Based on our discussions, I believe this tech stack covers the key
architectural components required for the HexProperty project. However,
there are a few additional areas we may want to consider:

## Deployment and CI/CD:

-   We haven\'t explicitly discussed the tooling and processes for
    > deployment, continuous integration, and continuous deployment.
    > This is an important aspect to address, especially for a complex,
    > multi-service application.

-   Potential tools to consider: Terraform, GitHub Actions, CircleCI, or
    > other CI/CD platforms.

## Security and Compliance:

-   While we touched on some security aspects, such as authentication
    > and authorization, a more comprehensive security and compliance
    > strategy may be needed.

-   Considerations: Identity and access management, encryption, security
    > monitoring, and compliance with relevant regulations (e.g., data
    > privacy).

## Serverless Functions:

-   Depending on the project\'s requirements, the use of serverless
    > functions (in addition to the current serverless containers) could
    > be beneficial for certain tasks or event- driven workflows.

-   Potential tools: Google Cloud Functions, AWS Lambda, Azure
    > Functions.

## Batch Processing and Data Pipelines:

-   For certain data-intensive tasks or offline processing requirements,
    > the integration of batch processing and data pipelines should be
    > considered.

-   Potential tools: Google Cloud Dataflow, Apache Beam, Airflow.

## Monitoring and Observability:

-   Beyond the current monitoring and logging solutions, a more
    > comprehensive observability strategy may be needed to gain deeper
    > insights into the overall system health and performance.

-   Potential tools: Datadog, New Relic, Splunk, Elastic Stack.

## Backup and Disaster Recovery:

-   Ensure that there is a robust backup and disaster recovery plan in
    > place, covering the various data sources and infrastructure
    > components.

-   Potential tools: Google Cloud Storage, Cloud SQL backup, Velero,
    > Restic.

By addressing these additional areas, you can further strengthen the
overall architecture and ensure the HexProperty project is well-equipped
to meet its requirements in terms of scalability, reliability, security,
and maintainability.

> From
> \<[[https://markdowntohtml.com/]{.underline}](https://markdowntohtml.com/)\>
